Conclusion
While cooperation on other transnational issues is often based around mutual interest and/or around relationships of trust, cyber security is problematic in both respects. Perhaps in part because of the broad implications of Internet technology, state interests in this context align at some times and they collide quite significantly at others. Furthermore, the attribution problem and its implications for transparency mean that trust is difficult.

In the case of a pre-existing security arrangement like NATO, the challenges of interpreting cyber security within a set of practices and policies conceived of to address kinetic conflict continue to play out and to limit clarity about possible retaliation. The ongoing problems of attribution and the interconnected nature of military and civilian systems make options for response complex and (at this stage) quite limited. In addition, there is much more work to be done on understanding the extent to which cyber security and war can be dealt with in the same conceptual, legal and practical frameworks. It is likely that extending war-related practices and policies to cyberspace will have limited utility in the long term.

For a ‘purpose built' mechanism for international cooperation on cyber security like the Budapest convention, aligning laws in cyberspace equates to aligning values on issues with diverse interpretations and approaches. Values and interests have always played a role in international cooperation of any kind but in the case of cyber security, the implications are so broad that an unusually wide range of factors must be taken into account and coordinated and this has proven challenging. Perhaps as significant as this has been the expectation by states of a more equitable and inclusive process – one that is not led by powerful states but one that takes into account more fully the views of those expected to participate.

This brief account of some of the political impediments to greater international cooperation on cyber security points to a broad range of issues that demand much more in depth and sustained attention from International Relations as a discipline. It is both surprising and puzzling that a discipline so well equipped to address issues of global security, cooperation, war, peace, power and competition has yet to contribute more significantly to understanding the implications of the information age. This special issue reflects the willingness, curiosity and capability of the next generation of IR scholars to address these questions and I am proud to be published in their company.

